11-25-2018-laravel-valet/WP-Development-With-Laravel-Valet.md, before:

# WordPress Development with Laravel Valet

There are tons of options for setting up a local development environment for WordPress. In this post we want to show you, how you can use [Laravel Valet](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/valet) for local WordPress development.

## Laravel Valet

Laravel Valet was primarily designed for local [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) development - sounds obvious right? :).

Valet uses the built-in PHP server from Mac (yes Valet is limited to Mac-Users, but there are forks for [Linux](https://github.com/cpriego/valet-linux) and [Windows](https://github.com/cretueusebiu/valet-windows) - but we did not test those yet) and utilizes [DnsMasq](http://www.thekelleys.org.uk/dnsmasq/doc.html) to proxy all requests to the `.test` TLD to sites on your local machine. Valet also requires PHP and a database server installed locally on your machine.

It's a very simple and fast setup.

## WordPress & Valet

We are using a slightly modified [Bedrock](https://roots.io/bedrock/) setup for our WordPress projects, but you can also use the default one. The local setup is pretty easy and can be done as follows.

### 1. Install valet with composer

`composer global require laravel/valet`

![Valet options and commands][valet]

### 2. Configure Valet

Run `valet install` for installing and configuring valet and dnsmasq. After the installation try pinging any `*.test` domain and you should see that `127.0.0.1` will respond.

#### Auto mapping projects

Valet has a super comfortable function, which maps local sites automatically to the configured TLD domain. For enabling it switch to the designated folder and run `valet park`.

```bash
▲ cd ~/projects/valet
▲ valet park
```

All folders inside the used path will be mapped automatically. The folder name is also the site name.

![Valet mapping][valet-mapping]

### 3. Setup WordPress project

As usual :)

And that's actually it.

## Sharing sites

You can also share local sites to others with the `valet share` command. It enables sharing with a tool called **ngrok**.

```bash
▲ cd ~/projects/valet/towa-boilerplate
▲ valet share
```

After running the command inside the project folder, following screen appears:

![Valet sharing][valet-sharing]

## Further useful commands

+ `valet link`: add projects outside the parked folder
+ `valet secure`: secure a local site with ssl
+ `valet list`: list all commands

## Valet vs VMs

You should be aware that Valet is not a replacement for a virtual machine. If you need more advanced and extended setup you probably have to use one. Reasons for that would be for example if you need a flexible local environment without beeing tied to your local settings or if you wish to make a more production-like environment. Additionally some VMs provide other services and software you may need like Redis, Memcached, Node, Mailhog, Elasticsearch and so on.

You could use for example [homestead](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/homestead) - which we'll cover in a seperate blogpost.

## Conclusion

Valet is a super simple and fast setup for a local development environment. It's suitable for WordPress and also a couple of other frameworks who have the same requirement stack.

## Resources

+ [Official Laravel Website](https://laravel.com/)
+ [Official Laravel Valet Website](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/valet)
+ [WordPress Bedrock](https://roots.io/bedrock/)

[valet]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet.png "Valet options & commands"
[valet-mapping]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet-mapping.png "Valet mapping"
[valet-sharing]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet-sharing.png "Valet sharing"

Commit message:

chore(post): update valet & wp

11-25-2018-laravel-valet/WP-Development-With-Laravel-Valet.md, after:

# WordPress Development with Laravel Valet

There are tons of options for setting up a local development environment for WordPress. In this post we want to show you, how you can use [Laravel Valet](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/valet) for local WordPress development.

## Laravel Valet

Laravel Valet was primarily designed for local [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) development - sounds obvious right? :).

Valet uses the built-in PHP server from Mac (yes Valet is limited to Mac-Users, but there are forks for [Linux](https://github.com/cpriego/valet-linux) and [Windows](https://github.com/cretueusebiu/valet-windows) - but we did not test those yet) and utilizes [DnsMasq](http://www.thekelleys.org.uk/dnsmasq/doc.html) to proxy all requests to the `.test` TLD to sites on your local machine. Valet also requires PHP and a database server installed locally on your machine.

Out of the box, Valet already supports numerous frameworks like Laravel, Lumen, Bedrock, Drupal, Symfony, WordPress and others. Additionally you can build custom drivers to support your own setup.

It's a very simple and fast setup.

## WordPress & Valet

We are using a slightly modified [Bedrock](https://roots.io/bedrock/) setup for our WordPress projects, but you can also use the default one. The local setup is pretty easy and can be done as follows.

### 1. Install valet with composer

`composer global require laravel/valet`

![Valet options and commands][valet]

### 2. Configure Valet

Run `valet install` for installing and configuring valet and dnsmasq. After the installation try pinging any `*.test` domain and you should see that `127.0.0.1` will respond.

#### Auto mapping projects

Valet has a super comfortable function, which maps local sites automatically to the configured TLD domain. For enabling it switch to the designated folder and run `valet park`.

```bash
▲ cd ~/projects/valet
▲ valet park
```

All folders inside the used path will be mapped automatically. The folder name is also the site name.

![Valet mapping][valet-mapping]

### 3. Setup WordPress project

As usual :)

And that's actually it.

## Sharing sites

You can also share local sites to others with the `valet share` command. It enables sharing with a tool called **ngrok**.

```bash
▲ cd ~/projects/valet/towa-boilerplate
▲ valet share
```

After running the command inside the project folder, following screen appears:

![Valet sharing][valet-sharing]

## Further useful commands

+ `valet link`: add projects outside the parked folder
+ `valet secure`: secure a local site with ssl
+ `valet list`: list all commands

## Valet vs VMs

You should be aware that Valet is not a replacement for a virtual machine. If you need more advanced and extended setup you probably have to use one. Reasons for that would be for example if you need a flexible local environment without beeing tied to your local settings or if you wish to make a more production-like environment. Additionally some VMs provide other services and software you may need like Redis, Memcached, Node, Mailhog, Elasticsearch and so on.

You could use for example [homestead](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/homestead) - which we'll cover in a seperate blogpost.

## Conclusion

Valet is a super simple and fast setup for a local development environment. It's suitable for WordPress and also a couple of other frameworks who have the same requirement stack.

## Resources

+ [Official Laravel Website](https://laravel.com/)
+ [Official Laravel Valet Website](https://laravel.com/docs/5.7/valet)
+ [WordPress Bedrock](https://roots.io/bedrock/)

[valet]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet.png "Valet options & commands"
[valet-mapping]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet-mapping.png "Valet mapping"
[valet-sharing]: https://github.com/towa-digital/posts/raw/master/11-25-2018-laravel-valet/valet-sharing.png "Valet sharing"
